                        8:00 6th Jan 2026 - Week 1
I. First words
This is my personal journaling for a custom project in the COS10009 course at Swinburne Vietnam.
I will be documenting ideas, planning, studies. I will refer to myself as J)

II. Background
I have finished 2 projects in Java before I start this course, I believe it helps me a lot in
answering myself "where do I start in developing this project?". I have 2 mentors who have led me since I started
which I am thankful for.

III. Finished works
I finished setting up a Github repository in my personal account for this project, for the gitignore file, I chose
Python format on Github when setting up the repo.

IV. Approach
My approach for this project is firstly to write down a structured planning on paper, covering core ideas, basic features,
inspirations, plans to study, goals for each weeks and explanation for each.

V. Ideas and features
The idea for my project is personal training-recovery tracking software with GUI. At its core, I had planned for it to
log training session, tracks volume, intensity recovery status as well as analyze trends, providing charts and such.

Basic features for this will be adding training session, view weekly/monthly/yearly training summary and status. Users
will also be able to save and delete datas.

VI. goals
For week 1, I have planned to learn the fundamentals and get used to syntax of Python. Working on smaller exercises,
solving Leetcode questions. Alongside, SRS and System diagram will also be visualized on my notebook before I polish it
digitally.
I had found that drawing system diagram for a larger project is not the first step in developing an app, I however,
should start with basic ideas, core features until then can I focus on drawing the control flow.
                           this will be it for today of week 1, J out, see you next time.


                            12:50 8th Jan 26-week 1
I have not got much done since the last time I worked on this project, I finished the flow chart
on draw.io. I am currently studying Python on W3school.com. From the perspective of one who have
basic understanding of fundamentals, I glide through stuffs fairly fast, however, I struggle greatly
with readability when working with Python and stuffs like not forcing return types for not declaring
data types when declaring new varieables. However, casting has made this alot easier for me, I now use
Casting every time I declare a new vari.



